## Project #2 (10/11/2023)

**Explanation of what I did on the project**:  I switched the order of the first couple steps relative to what was laid out in the project2.pdf document; more specifically, as opposed to setting up a GitHub repository and getting RStudio connected to that repository, my first move was to search out an API to use and start developing code.  My rationale for doing so was, "oh, you don't know much about setting up GitHub repositories and getting RStudio connected, and so instead of risking spinning your wheels right off the bat, why don't you instead make moves where you have better odds of making at least some progress from the starting gate".  Best laid plans, huh?!  I ended up spinning my wheels for hours and hours and hours and hours on end clicking around for an API that seemed to satisfy all of the following: I could figure out how to access it; I could figure out how to parse it; I could understand the documentation / data that I was looking at; AND it seemed like it was comprised of data that would adequately support the EDA portion of the project.  Ugh, very frustrating.  I eventually ended up finding something that I was after (i.e. an API with data other than real-time data only) in the form of a Carbon Intensity API for Great Britain.  After doing so, I started developing code in an R script, after which I set up the GitHub repository, and connected an R project with an Rmd file, to which I started tranferring my code, and then fleshing out with a narrative.

**Interesting findings**:  To me, the most interesting finding is variation in electricity sources across the different regions in Great Britain.

**Reflections**:
* This project took an astounding amount of time, so much so that it leaves me largely unprepared for the exam which is scheduled at basically the same time that the project is due (apologies for my belly-aching!)  I think this is at least in part because of the initial/extreme wheel-spinning I mention above, but also because I'm still very green in terms of using R (e.g. I feel like I have to go search the internet, and/or go search the class notes, and/or go search a previous assignment for every. single. move. I. try. to. make.)
* I was surprised by the proportion of APIs that seem to be "real-time data only" APIs.  I steered clear of these out of fear that "when I click run now I may get different results relative to when I click run tomorrow".
* Its difficult to make a mental gameplan for something like this when there's some hoop-jumping involved before you're even able to see the data with which you'll (potentially) be working; in other words, "know your data" seems easier said than done when you're blindly fumbling around in a world (i.e. the world of APIs) that you've never fumbled around in.
* As much time and frustration as this project cost me, I still had a strange sense of satisfaction along the way stemming from the fact that I felt like I was actually putting something together.  Unfortunately, this small shine seemed to also fade as I look over the finished product and think "yeah this is not bad, I'm satisfied, but there's no way on earth it should have taken me as long as it did".

**Things I learned programming-wise**:
* I'm still very green.
* APIs can have objects within objects, and these objects within objects can be something like "dataframes within dataframes".  It blows my feeble mind.
* There are some basics that I still need to somehow drill into my head, e.g. when to use = vs. ==; when to put something in quotes vs. not put it in quotes; when R is case-sensitive and when its not; the mind-boggling array of "packages" that are in play; etc.
* All that said, I feel like I'm (gradually) picking up something, it just feels like its happening at an excrutiatingly slow pace.

**Things to do different**:  Locate the API even sooner!  Maybe by doing more targeted searches (e.g. "API with historical data").  I guess its hard to know what you're after though when you've never even been there to begin with.

**Link to rendered GitHub site**: [https://github.com/terry-mctest/st558-project2#st558-fall-2023-project-2](https://github.com/terry-mctest/st558-project2#st558-fall-2023-project-2)

**Link to GitHub repository**: [https://github.com/terry-mctest/st558-project2](https://github.com/terry-mctest/st558-project2)
